# Ballotchain for Secure and Transparent E-Voting Mechanism
Artificial intelligence (AI) has demonstrated huge potential in a variety of real-world applications. However, some significant considerations like fairness, transparency and trustworthiness are still challenging when applying AI to trust-oriented applications such as E-voting. The technology can ensure the safety of every vote, better and faster and much more accurate counting and automatic tallying. In this project, we aim to facilitate the consolidation of AI ecosystems by developing a blockchain-based traceable self-tallying e-voting system. The proposed system presents a novel voting system by using QR and Fingerprint of Aadhaar card. When the e-voting system is integrated with the Internet of Things, any eligible voter can vote from anywhere as there will be two or more levels of authenticity checks. The system will act as registering module on activating switch by the super admin. For registering module, the QR code of Aadhar is scanned (which is brought by the use) followed by the fingerprint verification. The system permits the elector to cast their vote, block chain technology comes into existence that is integrated within the machine. Each vote is added into each block encrypted by 256-bit SHA hash codes, the hashed block cannot be tampered by any individual as more security is added to the system. By adopting Block chain within the distribution of information will scale back one in every of the cheating sources of database manipulation. The proposed mechanism of voting using Block chain not only serves the election conducting bodies but also the voters who get notified in case of any meddling with their votes before the counting announcement.
